Update alt text in the content (#301)
wpaccessibility/wp-a11y-docs: docs/topics/code/images/image-animation.md

---
title: Image animation
layout: default
parent: Images
description: Learn what is important for animation in images.
nav_order: 5
---

# Image animation and accessibility

For moving, blinking, scrolling, or auto-updating animation that starts automatically, make sure that:

> - the animation doesn't last longer than 5 seconds and then stops,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the animation doesn't last longer than 5 seconds before stopping,
```

> - or the user can stop an animation themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- or the user can easily stop the animation themselves.
```

<svg role="img" aria-label="bouncing blue ball" width="100" height="100" viewBox="0 0 100 100" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style="display:block">
  <style>
    @media (prefers-reduced-motion: no-preference) {
      .ball { animation: bounce 0.5s cubic-bezier(0.33,0,0.66,0) 10 alternate both; }
    }
    @keyframes bounce {
      from { transform: translateY(0px); }
      to   { transform: translateY(58px); }
    }

  </style>

  <ellipse cx="50" cy="90" rx="4" ry="2" fill="#000" opacity="0.18"/>

  <circle class="ball" cx="50" cy="22" r="14" fill="#3B82F6"/>
  <circle class="ball" cx="45" cy="18" r="4" fill="#93C5FD" opacity="0.6"/>
</svg>

Make sure your animation doesn't contain anything that flashes more than three times in any one-second period.

Animations can cause a variety of symptoms in many users, ranging from mild dizziness to triggering migraines, nausea, and in the case of flashes even seizures.

> Also, it's really hard to concentrate on reading text, when an animation next to it is screaming for attention and there is no way to stop it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be very hard for many users to concentrate on reading text when an animation next to it is screaming for attention and there is no way to stop it.
```

## Setting reduced motion for animations

You can help users avoid these problems by making all of your animations support the `prefers-reduced-motion` flag.

> `prefers-reduced-motion` is a system preference that allows the user to indicate that they would prefer not to see animations. But this only works if the code properly supports it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`prefers-reduced-motion` is a system preference that allows the user to indicate that they would prefer not to see animations. But this only works if your code properly supports it!
```

You can check for this system preference using the CSS media feature:

```css
@media (prefers-reduced-motion) {
    .animation {
        /*  adjust your animations if reduced motion is requested.  */
    }
}
```

Reduced motion doesn’t have to mean no animation at all, but it should be very minimal – no more than is absolutely necessary. When in doubt, eliminate the animation entirely.

You can check for the media query in JavaScript by checking the value of the media query:

> ```javascript

Reviewer: I think that this example should go up before the 'Reduced motion doesn't have to mean...' explanation.

It just makes more sense to me to have both methods, then the reasoning, rather than method - reasons - other method.

const mediaQuery = window.matchMedia("(prefers-reduced-motion: reduce)");
```

{: .warning .callout }

> **Please note**: Not everyone is web savvy enough to activate reduced motion on their browser. Adding reduced motion only, is not enough to meet WCAG requirements.

Reviewer: I'd dispute this. Hidde wrote in 2022 that he believed that reduced motion support was sufficient to meet [WCAG 2.2.2, with some caveats](https://hidde.blog/meeting-2-22-pause-stop-hide-with-prefers-reduced-motion/) - and those caveats would mostly be caught by other criteria, e.g., loss of access to information. And it's certainly enough to meet 2.3.3, [per the understanding docs](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/animation-from-interactions.html).

Author: I contacted Hidde and will remove this text.

## Resources

### WCAG Success Criteria for animations

- [2.2.2 Pause, Stop, Hide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#pause-stop-hide) Level A
- [2.3.1 Three Flashes or Below Threshold](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#three-flashes-or-below-threshold) Level A.

> 

Reviewer: Should add a citation for 2.3.3, as well.
